Now we're gonna start talking
about transient transitions.
And transient transitions are different
than normal transitions because
they happen on null events.
Or you could sort of consider them
happening on no events at all.
Instead, these are transitions
that are automatically
taken once you enter a state.
And that's why transient transitions are
most useful when used with conditionals.
And so when you have a guarded transition,
you could immediately
choose where to go next.
So remember that a finite state
machine has an initial state,
and it only has one initial state.
When you turn a machine on,
whether it's an ATM or your computer,
it's always gonna have
that same initial state.
But that initial state might initially
check where it needs to go next.
So for example,
let's say that we have a page where you're
checking authentication or authorization.
And you want to immediately take
the user to either the dashboard if
they're authorized, or
the login screen otherwise.
Because we can't start the machine
immediately on the dashboard or
the login screen,
we have this checkingAuth state.
Which is, in this case,
it's known as a transient state,
because it has no direct
transitions based on events.
Instead, it has completely
null transitions.
And so in state machine syntax,
when you look at this diagram,
everything inside these
brackets is a transition guard.
So for example, this is gonna show that
we immediately take this transition
if it's authorized, or
if this authorized condition is true.
Otherwise, we take this transition.
So transient transitions look
a little bit interesting in xstate.
And it's because the property key
is literally just an empty string.
So this means that immediately,
we're going to take one of these
transitions if they apply.
So like we saw before,
where we could have multiple transitions,
we're going to check that
we can take the first one.
So if isAuthorized is true, then we're
going to select this transition.
Otherwise, we're going to
select the other transition.
So we're gonna go directly to the login or
directly to the dashboard,
depending on which condition is true.
So again, you could parameterize
the guard over here,
put it in isAuthorized,
in the guards right over here.
But that's not necessary, only if
you want to parametrize your guards.